Data sets where the ratio of
positive to negative examples
is very far from 50-50 are
called skewed data sets.
Let's look at some special
techniques for handling them.
Let me start with a
manufacturing example.
If a manufacturing company
makes smartphones,
hopefully, the vast majority
of them are not defective.
If 99.7 percent have no
defect and are labeled
y equals 0 and
only a small fraction
is labeled y equals 1,
then print 0,
which is not a very impressive
learning algorithm.
We achieve 99.7 percent accuracy.
For medical diagnosis, which was
the example we went through
in an earlier video,
if 99 percent of patients
don't have a disease,
then an algorithm that predicts
no one ever has a disease
will have 99 percent accuracy
or speech recognition.
If you're building a system
for wake word detection,
sometimes also called
trigger word detection,
these are systems that
listen and see if you say
a special word like Alexa
or Okay Google or Hey Zoe,
most of the time that special
wake word or trigger word
is not being spoken by anyone
at that moment in time.
When I had built wake
word detection systems,
the data sets were actually quite
skewed. One of the data
sets I used had 96.7
percent negative examples and
3.3 percent positive examples.
When you have a very
skewed data set like this,
low accuracy is not
that useful a metric to
look at because print zero
can get very high accuracy.
Instead, it's more useful to
build something called
the confusion matrix.
A confusion matrix
is a matrix where
one axis is labeled
with the actual label,
is the ground truth label,
y equals 0 or y equals 1
and whose other axis is
labeled with the prediction.
Was your learning
algorithms prediction
y equals 0 or y equals 1?
If you're building
a confusion matrix,
you fill in with each
of these four cells,
the total number of
examples say the
number of examples in
your dev set in
your development
set to fell into each
of these four buckets.
Let's say that 905 examples
in your development set had
a drought-proof
label of y equals 0
and then you might
write 905 there.
These examples are called
true negatives because they were
actually negative
and your algorithm
predicted they was negative.
Next, lets fill in
the true positives,
which are the examples where
the actual structure of
labels one and the
prediction is one,
maybe there are 68 of
them, true positives.
The false negatives are
the examples where your
algorithm father was negative,
but it was wrong.
The actual label is positive,
these are false negatives.
The 18 of that and lastly,
false positives
are the ones where
your algorithm
father was positive,
but that turned out to be
false, nine false positives.
The precision of
learning algorithm,
if I sum up over the columns,
905 plus 9 is 914 and
18 plus 68 is 86.
This is indeed a pretty
skewed data set where out of
1000 examples there were
940 negative examples and
just 86 positive examples,
8.6 percent positive,
91.4 percent negative.
The precision of your
learning algorithm
is defined as follows,
it asks of all the examples
that the algorithm thought
were positive examples,
what fraction did they get?
Precision as is defined
as true positives
divided by true positives
plus false positives.
In other words, it
looks at this row.
Of all the examples that
your average thoughts
had a label of one,
which is 68 plus 9 of them,
68 of them were actually right.
The precision is
68 over 68 plus 9,
which is 88.3 percent.
In contrast there we call
as of all the examples,
there were actually positive,
what fraction did your
algorithm get right?
Recall is defined
as true positives
divided by true positives
plus false negatives,
which in this case is
68 over 68 plus 18,
which is 79.1 percent.
The metrics are precision and
recall are more useful than
law accuracy when it
comes to evaluating
the performance of
learning algorithms
on very skewed data sets.
Let's see what happens if
your learning algorithm
outputs zero all the time.
It turns out it won't
do very well on recall.
Taking this example
of where we had
914 negative examples and
86 positive examples,
if the algorithm outputs
zero all the time.
This is what the confusion
matrix will look like,
914 times it'll output zero
with a grand total of zero,
and 86 times it'll output
zero with a ground truth of one.
Precision is true
positives divided
by true positives
plus false positives,
which in this case
turns out to be zero
over zero plus zero,
which is not defined,
and unless your
algorithm actually
outputs no positive
labels at all,
you get some of the number that
hopefully isn't zero over zero.
But more importantly,
if you look at recall,
which is true positives over
true positives plus
false negatives,
this turns out to be
zero over zero plus 86,
which is zero percent,
and so the 0.0 algorithm
achieves zero percent recall,
which gives you an easy way
to flag that this is not
detecting any useful,
positive examples.
The learning algorithm
with some precision,
even the high value of
precision is not that
useful usually if this
recall is so low.
The standard metrics when
I look at when comparing
different models on
skewed data sets
are precision and recall.
Where looking at these
numbers helps you figure out
and of all the examples that
are truly positive examples,
what fraction did the
algorithm manage to catch?
Sometimes you have one model with
a better recall and
a different model with
a better precision.
How do you compare
two different models?
There's a common way of combining
precision and recall
using this formula,
which is called the F_1 score.
One intuition behind
the F_1 score is
that you want an algorithm to
do well on both
precision and recall,
and if it does worse on
either precision or
recall, that's pretty bad.
F_1 is a way of combining
precision and recall that
emphasizes whichever of P or
R precision or recall is worse.
In mathematics, this is
technically called a
harmonic mean between
precision and recall,
which is like taking
the average but placing
more emphasis on whichever
is the lower number.
If you compute the F_1
score of these two models,
it turns out to be
83.4 percent using the
formula below here.
Model 2 has a very bad recall,
so its F_1 score is
actually quite low as well
and this lets us tell,
maybe more clearly
that Model 1
appears to be a superior
model than Model 2.
For your application,
you may have
a different weighting
between position and recall,
and so F_1 isn't
the only way to combine
precision and recall,
it's just one metric
that's commonly
used for many applications.
Let me step through
one more example where
precision and recall is useful.
So far, we've talked about
the binary classification
problem with skewed data sets.
It turns out to also
frequently be useful
for multi-class
classification problems.
If you are detecting
defects in smartphones,
you may want to
detect scratches on
them or dents or pit marks.
This is what it looks
like if someone
took a screwdriver and
poked their cell phone,
or discoloration of
the cell phone's LCD
screen or other material.
Maybe all four of these defects
are actually quite rare
that you might want to develop
an algorithm that can
detect all four of them.
One way to evaluate
how your algorithm is
doing on all four
of these defects,
each of which can be quite rare,
would be to look at precision
and recall of each of
these four types of
defects individually.
In this example, the
learning algorithm has 82.1
percent precision on finding
scratches and 99.2
percent recall.
You find in manufacturing that
many factories will
want high recall
because you really
don't want to let
the phone go out
that is defective.
But if an algorithm has
slightly lower
precision, that's okay,
because through a human
re-examining the phone,
they will hopefully figure
out that the phone
is actually okay,
so many factories will
emphasize high recall.
By combining precision and
recall using F_1 as follows,
this gives you a single number
evaluation metric for how
well your algorithm is doing
on the four different types of
defects and can also
help you benchmark to
human-level performance and also
prioritize what to work on next.
Instead of accuracy on scratches,
dents, pit marks,
and discolorations,
using F_1 score can help you to
prioritize the most fruitful type
of defect to try to work on.
The reason we use F_1 is because,
maybe all four defects are
very rare and so accuracy
would be very high even if
the algorithm was missing
a lot of these defects.
I hope that these tools
will help you both evaluate
your algorithm as well as
prioritize what to work on,
both in problems with
skewed data sets and
for problems with
multiple rare classes.
Now, to wrap up the
section on Error Analysis,
there's one final concept I
hope to go over with you,
which is Performance Auditing.
I found for many projects this
is a key step to make sure
the learning algorithm
is working well enough
before you push it out to
a production deployment.
Let's take a look at
Performance Auditing.